# SeboldITCourse
CCC
Executive Summary:
This unit's learning objectives include becoming acquianted with different catgories of software, virtualization and cloud computing, programming with Python, and different careers in IT.
Virtualization:
Virtualization allows a business to use their servers capacities more efficiently.  If you have 3 servers, one for mail, one for internal company-specific applications, and one for the web, virtualization allows you to split one server into 2 or even 3 to run all three functions out of one.  Then the other 1 or 2 servers can either be decommissioned or put to another use.  The hyporvisor is a piece of software that extracts the hardware's capabilities, which can then be made available for use in a virtual environment.  Virtualization is a technology.  A hypervisor is a piece of software that pulls the hardwares resources and makes them available in the form of virtual machines. Whereas cloud computing is an IT environment that allows users to share resources across a network. THese resources are pooled into a cloud, with management software to allow administrative oversight and automation software to narrow the need for human interaction.
Python:
In the reading it describes Python as being pseudo code in nature, which is one of it's user friendly attributes.  Pseudo code is a simplistic way to write code without having to conform to a particular syntax.  This makes it easier for the developer to plan.
Compiled language needs to be converted from it's source into binary language that is readable by your computer using a compiler.  Interpretive language, which is what Python uses, converts the source code into something called bytecodes and then translates it to what your computer reads.  Then all you have to do is run the program without worrying about libraries being linked.
Career Exploration:
College Central--  I looked at some of the internships available and what it made me think was that I wish I had more opportunities when I was getting out of high school.  Now I work full-time so an internship is out of the question. It looked like there were some really cool opportunities, one in particular for Sherwin Williams. I heard they are a great company to work for.
Certifications:
CompTIA CySA+ -- offers Cybersecurity Analyst certifications. Reading about how advanced cyber attacks are becoming is scary, and really makes you feel like you have to take some action. The company I work literally just created a position for Compliance Analyst.  We work with PHI (protected health information) as well as financial data, so our company is a golden goose and needs to be kept secure.
Cisco Certified CyberOps Professional Certification also sounds like a great choioce for a short-term, affordable jumpstart to a career in cybersecurity
CISSP or certified information security systems professional -- is a certification that would allow an individual to get into careers like director of security, security systems engineer, and security architect.  
Certificates -- the Post-Degree Certification in Programmingn and Development sounds like something I may have wanted to do originally. I have an Associate's degree, and this would have been a lower cost way to get into developing. I am pursuing a Bachelor's degree in Computer Science, though, takings some of the classes at Tri-C and the majority at Franklin University.
Co-Ops/Internships -- are opportunities for students to get hands-on experience. Co-ops are paid job assignments that allow a student to simultaneously earn college credit.  Internships are similar, except there is no compensation. Both of these look great on a resume. To become co-op ready, you must complete the Application of Interest, take part in the orientation through the Career Center, submit your resume for revision with a Career Coach through the Handshake program, and sign the Cooperative Education Agreement form.
Industry Associations/Student Organizations
ACM-W -- The Association for Computing Machinery for Women is an organization that provides resources for women in computing. The goal is to bridge that gap that results from gender inequalities in salary and opportunities for career advancement.  I think I would actually like to join this club!
Conclusion:
This was an interesting Lab.  I have actually begun to get really excited about the program outcomes that I will experience through hard work and determination. Working full-time and going to school is DIFFICULT, but I want to succeed more than anything so I will not give up no matter how tough things get.
