Executvie Summary -- In this unit we learn about internet architecture, specfically protocol stacks and suites. We learn about html documents, and how to write one. We also read about the components of a URL and what each of them does.

Internet Architecture
Internet Protocol -- An IP address is the unique numerical identifier that each device that accesses the internet has. When we send an email or visit websites, you are sending packets of data to the other IP address. IPv4 was the original set of available IP addresses, numbering about 4.3 billion. Since there are about 7 billion people on earth, so we needed to implement IPv6 which has enough addresses to outlast the intial 30 years or so that IPv4 lasted. IPv4 addresses look like strings of numbers in groups of 4 separated by dots, and IPv6 addresses have much longer number strings, so are written using hexadecimals. IPv6 has 128-bit address space, which is 340 undecillion addresses. ICANN distributes IP address blocks to the five Regional Interent Registries or RIRs worldwide, the RIRs then dive out amller address blocks to IPS, and from there the addresses get assigned to individual internet connections.
TCP/IP -- Which stands for Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol defines the ways data gets sent and received through network adapters, hubs, switches, routers and other network hardware. It was originally devised by the US department of defense, but was then opened up to the public domain and is now the most popular networking protocol. The client/server model of TCP/IP is like someone making a phone call (client) and the receiver of the phone call (server) has to answer the phone. Once the connection is established, the data gets sent across the network. Layers are important to changing technology because a single stack is very inflexible and if any change was required then the whole protocol software would have to change. The example of the mail service, where a mailman collects items to go out, takes them to a room to be sorted and dsipatched. They go on a vehicle and get delivered to the secondary mail office, where their mailman collects and disperses the packages.  The idea is that if there needs to be a change at any level, this can be done without disturbing the other levels. SMTP, FTP, HTTP, POP3, IMAP4, AND SNMP run on the application layer.
Internet Security -- HTTP or hypertext transfer protocol, is the protocol used to view websites. All information is unencrypted, or in cleartext, which is a problem because while being transferred it could be intercepted by hackers. That's why the security layer was added, and HTTPS was developed, and the data gets scrambled to keep it safe. SSL (secure sockets layer) is used by HTTP to keep data secure by using public key encryption. The web browser will ask the server to submit it's certificate to authenticate the server's identity. TLS (transport layer security) is SSL's successor, and it authenticates the server, client, and encrypts the data.
Securing your Web Browser -- It is vitally important to secure your web browser to put up a defense to spyware being installed, or intruders gaining access. Antivirus software and enabling automatic updates are a few ways to safeguard. One common risk are Cookies. These are files store data for specific websites, including patterns of activity on the website or even credentials. This is a privacy issue, and an attacker could gain access to a cookie containing sensitive information.

Internet Programming
Tim Berners-Lee is the inventor and director of the World Wide Web which is an international community where Members, staff and the public work together to develop web standards. One of the standards that caught my attention is Browsers and Authoring Tools. W3C enables the blending and publishing capabilities for all software and hardware. The thought being that contributors come from all over the globe and can have many different devices/ways to publish.
HTML and CSS -- <!DOCTYPE html> signifies an html document. Then the elements that you want in you webpage are listed, <head> for heading, <style> to add color or change font. The <h1> and </h1> enclose the heading, <p> and </p> enclose the paragraph, and <a href - </a> enclose the link path. I just wanted to create a colorful, happy site that you can find motivational tools on.
HTML and XML --  XML does not do anything, it is simply a carrier for data. HTML actually displays data.  XML allows the user to create whatever tags they want to use, they are not defined.  HTML has predefined tags, <p> for paragraph, <h1> for the first heading, etc. XML makes data sharing, platform changes, and upgrades simpler because the data is in plain text.
  
Components of a URL
Uniform Resource Locators are links. The scheme: https, Top level domain: .com, .edu, .gov, .org, Anchor: specific location on a page, Default page: result of search
Parameters: no file path provided

Conclusion -- It was really fun to write an html document and have it actually translate into a website, that was by far the best part. My only issue is I could not figure out how to get the image to display on my website, which was disappointing.
